---
title: Label-fqn
author: Santiment team
date: 2024-04-09
description: Label fqn description
---

## Description

This page outlines the format and use of label string identifiers, so called **label fqn** (label fully qualified name). Label fqns are used in [Santiment Queries](/santiment-queries), [API](/sanapi) and [Sanbase](/sanbase).

### FQN Structure

A typical label fqn consists of:
- `owner`: Indicates the creator of the label. Most users will primarily use labels created by the Santiment team.
- `key`: Denotes the key of the label. Our academy provides a comprehensive list of [all available labels](/labels).
- `value` \[optional\]: Represents the value of the label. Suitable for labels that possess values, this information can be specified within each label in the academy.
- `asset_name` \[optional\]: Represents the asset name given label corresponds to.
- `version`: We employ versioning when assigning labels with specific algorithms to ensure consistency. When an algorithm is updated, we might introduce a new version to accommodate changes, while still providing access to labels generated by previous versions.

In order to get label fqn we concatinated fields described above as follows:

`owner/key->value(asset_name):version`

### Nore about asset name

For labels like whale or whale_usd_balance, there's the option to include an asset in the identifier. For example, to identify addresses labeled as whale within the EtherFi asset ether-fi-ethfi, the label identifier would be santiment/whale(ether-fi-ethfi):v1.

### Note about Key->Value Pairs

To obtain addresses associated with specific values, such as owner, you can also specify the value, like Binance. For instance, a label identifier for addresses belonging to Binance would be `santiment/owner->binance:v1`.

## Label FQN Examples

- `santiment/centralized_exchange:v1`: A centralized exchange label

- `santiment/owner->binance:v1`: Binance label

- `santiment/whale_usd_balance(ethereum):v1`: Ethereum whale by USD balance
